en/django_models/README.md, before:

# Django models

> TODO Add context and do this chapter without OOP

What we want to create now is something that will store all the posts in our blog.

> NOTE: There is a concept in programming called `Object-oriented programming`. The idea is that instead of writing everything as a boring sequence of programming instructions we can model things and define how they interact with each other.

How will we model blog posts then? We want to build a blog, right?

We need to answer the question: What is a blog post? What properties should it have?

Well, for sure our blog post needs some text with its content and a title, right? It would be also nice to know who wrote it - so we need an author. Finally, we want to know when the post was created and published.

    Post
    --------
    title
    text
    author
    created_date
    published_date

What kind of things could be done with a blog post? It would be nice to have some `method` that publishes the post, right?

So we will need a `publish` method.

Since we already know what we want to achieve, let's start modeling it in Django!

## Django model

Knowing what an object is, we can create a Django model for our blog post.

A model in Django is a special kind of object - it is saved in the `database`. A database is a collection of data. This is a place in which you will store information about users, your blog posts, etc. We will be using a SQLite database to store our data. This is the default Django database adapter -- it'll be enough for us right now.

You can think of a model in the database as a spreadsheet with columns (fields) and rows (data).

### Creating a blog post model

In the `blog/models.py` file we define all objects called `Models` - this is a place in which we will define our blog post.

Let's open `blog/models.py`, remove everything from it and write code like this:

> TODO: Remove `publish()` and `__str__`. We can define them when we need them

```python
from django.db import models
from django.utils import timezone


class Post(models.Model):
    author = models.ForeignKey('auth.User')
    title = models.CharField(max_length=200)
    text = models.TextField()
    created_date = models.DateTimeField(
            default=timezone.now)
    published_date = models.DateTimeField(
            blank=True, null=True)

    def publish(self):
        self.published_date = timezone.now()
        self.save()

    def __str__(self):
        return self.title
```

> Double-check that you use two underscore characters (`_`) on each side of `str`. This convention is used frequently in Python and sometimes we also call them "dunder" (short for "double-underscore").

It looks scary, right? But no worries we will explain what these lines mean!

All lines starting with `from` or `import` are lines that add some bits from other files. So instead of copying and pasting the same things in every file, we can include some parts with `from ... import ...`.

`class Post(models.Model):` - this line defines our model (it is an `object`).

- `class` is a special keyword that indicates that we are defining an object.
- `Post` is the name of our model. We can give it a different name (but we must avoid special characters and whitespaces). Always start a class name with an uppercase letter.
- `models.Model` means that the Post is a Django Model, so Django knows that it should be saved in the database.

Now we define the properties we were talking about: `title`, `text`, `created_date`, `published_date` and `author`. To do that we need to define a type of each field (Is it text? A number? A date? A relation to another object, like a User?).

- `models.CharField` - this is how you define text with a limited number of characters.
- `models.TextField` - this is for long text without a limit. Sounds ideal for blog post content, right?
- `models.DateTimeField` - this is a date and time.
- `models.ForeignKey` - this is a link to another model.

We will not explain every bit of code here since it would take too much time. You should take a look at Django's documentation if you want to know more about Model fields and how to define things other than those described above (https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/models/fields/#field-types).

What about `def publish(self):`? It is exactly the `publish` method we were talking about before. `def` means that this is a function/method and `publish` is the name of the method. You can change the name of the method, if you want. The naming rule is that we use lowercase and underscores instead of whitespaces. For example,  a method that calculates average price could be called `calculate_average_price`.

Methods often `return` something. There is an example of that in the `__str__` method. In this scenario, when we call `__str__()` we will get a text (**string**) with a Post title.

If something is still not clear about models, feel free to ask your coach! We know it is complicated, especially when you learn what objects and functions are at the same time. But hopefully it looks slightly less magic for you now!

### Create tables for models in your database

The last step here is to add our new model to our database. First we have to make Django know that we have some changes in our model (we have just created it!). Go to your console window and type `python manage.py makemigrations blog`. It will look like this:

    (myvenv) ~/djangogirls$ python manage.py makemigrations blog
    Migrations for 'blog':
      0001_initial.py:
      - Create model Post

Django prepared for us a migration file that we have to apply now to our database. Type `python manage.py migrate blog` and the output should be:

    (myvenv) ~/djangogirls$ python manage.py migrate blog
    Operations to perform:
      Apply all migrations: blog
    Running migrations:
      Rendering model states... DONE
      Applying blog.0001_initial... OK

Hurray! Our Post model is now in our database! It would be nice to see it, right? Jump to the next chapter to see what your Post looks like!

Commit message:

Update some todos for the django models and django orm chapters

en/django_models/README.md, after:

# Django models

> TODO Add context and do this chapter without OOP

What we want to create now is something that will store all the posts in our blog.

> NOTE: There is a concept in programming called `Object-oriented programming`. The idea is that instead of writing everything as a boring sequence of programming instructions we can model things and define how they interact with each other.

How will we model blog posts then? We want to build a blog, right?

We need to answer the question: What is a blog post? What properties should it have?

Well, for sure our blog post needs some text with its content and a title, right? It would be also nice to know who wrote it - so we need an author. Finally, we want to know when the post was created and published.

    Post
    --------
    title
    text
    author
    created_date
    published_date

What kind of things could be done with a blog post? It would be nice to have some `method` that publishes the post, right?

So we will need a `publish` method.

Since we already know what we want to achieve, let's start modeling it in Django!

## Django model

Knowing what an object is, we can create a Django model for our blog post.

A model in Django is a special kind of object - it is saved in the `database`. A database is a collection of data. This is a place in which you will store information about users, your blog posts, etc. We will be using a SQLite database to store our data. This is the default Django database adapter -- it'll be enough for us right now.

You can think of a model in the database as a spreadsheet with columns (fields) and rows (data).

### Creating a blog post model

In the `blog/models.py` file we define all objects called `Models` - this is a place in which we will define our blog post.

Let's open `blog/models.py`, remove everything from it and write code like this:

> TODO: Remove `publish()` and `__str__` at this point. They should be moved to Django ORM and Django Admin chapters respectively (when we actually need them, which makes for better context).

```python
from django.db import models
from django.utils import timezone


class Post(models.Model):
    author = models.ForeignKey('auth.User')
    title = models.CharField(max_length=200)
    text = models.TextField()
    created_date = models.DateTimeField(
            default=timezone.now)
    published_date = models.DateTimeField(
            blank=True, null=True)

    def publish(self):
        self.published_date = timezone.now()
        self.save()

    def __str__(self):
        return self.title
```

> Double-check that you use two underscore characters (`_`) on each side of `str`. This convention is used frequently in Python and sometimes we also call them "dunder" (short for "double-underscore").

It looks scary, right? But no worries we will explain what these lines mean!

All lines starting with `from` or `import` are lines that add some bits from other files. So instead of copying and pasting the same things in every file, we can include some parts with `from ... import ...`.

`class Post(models.Model):` - this line defines our model (it is an `object`).

- `class` is a special keyword that indicates that we are defining an object.
- `Post` is the name of our model. We can give it a different name (but we must avoid special characters and whitespaces). Always start a class name with an uppercase letter.
- `models.Model` means that the Post is a Django Model, so Django knows that it should be saved in the database.

Now we define the properties we were talking about: `title`, `text`, `created_date`, `published_date` and `author`. To do that we need to define a type of each field (Is it text? A number? A date? A relation to another object, like a User?).

- `models.CharField` - this is how you define text with a limited number of characters.
- `models.TextField` - this is for long text without a limit. Sounds ideal for blog post content, right?
- `models.DateTimeField` - this is a date and time.
- `models.ForeignKey` - this is a link to another model.

We will not explain every bit of code here since it would take too much time. You should take a look at Django's documentation if you want to know more about Model fields and how to define things other than those described above (https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.9/ref/models/fields/#field-types).

What about `def publish(self):`? It is exactly the `publish` method we were talking about before. `def` means that this is a function/method and `publish` is the name of the method. You can change the name of the method, if you want. The naming rule is that we use lowercase and underscores instead of whitespaces. For example,  a method that calculates average price could be called `calculate_average_price`.

Methods often `return` something. There is an example of that in the `__str__` method. In this scenario, when we call `__str__()` we will get a text (**string**) with a Post title.

If something is still not clear about models, feel free to ask your coach! We know it is complicated, especially when you learn what objects and functions are at the same time. But hopefully it looks slightly less magic for you now!

### Create tables for models in your database

The last step here is to add our new model to our database. First we have to make Django know that we have some changes in our model (we have just created it!). Go to your console window and type `python manage.py makemigrations blog`. It will look like this:

    (myvenv) ~/djangogirls$ python manage.py makemigrations blog
    Migrations for 'blog':
      0001_initial.py:
      - Create model Post

Django prepared for us a migration file that we have to apply now to our database. Type `python manage.py migrate blog` and the output should be:

    (myvenv) ~/djangogirls$ python manage.py migrate blog
    Operations to perform:
      Apply all migrations: blog
    Running migrations:
      Rendering model states... DONE
      Applying blog.0001_initial... OK

Hurray! Our Post model is now in our database! It would be nice to see it, right? Jump to the next chapter to see what your Post looks like!
